Proposed update to bylaws (#431)
apache/accumulo-website: contributor/bylaws.md

  - /governance/bylaws
---

This is version 4 of our project's bylaws and is subject to change.

# Introduction

Accumulo is a project of the [Apache Software Foundation (ASF)][foundation].
More details about the Foundation can be found on its pages.

Accumulo is a typical ASF project, operating under a set of principles known

> collectively as [the Apache Way][thisistheway]. If you are new to ASF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collectively as [The Apache Way][thisistheway]. If you are new to ASF
```

* Speaking on behalf of the project
* Nominating new PMC members and committers
* Maintaining these bylaws and other guidelines of the project

In particular, PMC members must understand both our project's criteria and ASF
criteria for voting on a [release][release-management].

Upon acceptance of an invitation to become a PMC member, it is the accepting
member's responsibility to update their status on the Accumulo web page
accordingly, and to make updates as needed.

Because the PMC is a role within the Foundation, changes to PMC membership
follow criteria established by the board. In general, this means that the board
chooses who gets added or removed from the PMC, but they may delegate that
authority to existing PMC members or the PMC chair. However, it is this
project's practice to collectively make decisions about PMC additions among the
existing PMC members on the project's private mailing list. Accordingly, the
existing PMC members will conduct a vote before inviting new PMC members, so
long as that vote can be done without violating the board's current procedures.
Depending on the current board procedures, this vote may be merely advisory.

> Additionally, no vote will be conducted without first being preceeded by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, no vote will be conducted without first being preceded by a
```

* tally the votes and record the vote result after a release vote period has elapsed
* ensure any post-release tasks are performed, such as updating the website and publishing artifacts

Details on [making][making] and [verifying][verifying] a release are available
on the Accumulo website.

# Decision Making

Within the Accumulo project, different types of decisions require different
forms of approval. For example, the previous section describes 'consensus' from
the existing PMC members. Consensus in that case can be achieved through a
[consensus approval vote][consensus].

## Voting

Decisions regarding the project are made by votes on the primary project
development mailing list: dev@accumulo.apache.org. Where necessary, PMC voting
may take place on the private Accumulo PMC mailing list:
private@accumulo.apache.org. Votes are clearly indicated by a subject line
starting with `[VOTE]`. After the vote period has elapsed, the initiator of the
vote, or their designee, closes it by replying to the thread with the vote
results. That result email should use the same subject line preceded by

> `[RESULT][VOTE]`. Voting is carried out by replying to the vote mail and

Reviewer: > closes it by replying to the thread with the vote
results

> That result email should use the same subject line preceded by
`[RESULT][VOTE]`

Do these two conflict with each other? Is one suggesting replying to an email thread and another suggesting a new email thread with a new subject line?

Author: No, they aren't in conflict. A thread is not defined by the subject alone, and changing the subject is not the same as starting a new thread in the conventional sense or in the technical sense.

In the technical sense, you can reply to a thread and change its subject line before sending in most email clients. A good email client will preserve the threading headers so that the mailing list service will keep them threaded in spite of the subject change. Although they have evolved, these features have generally been around for decades and were enormously useful in the days when NNTP newsgroups were supported by popular email clients. Some email clients (from my observations, Outlook is one) are particularly bad at this and drop these threading headers, and effectively start a new thread every time you change the subject.

However, even if they aren't threaded in the technical sense, (such as if a user uses a bad email client, for instance) it's still the same thread in the conventional sense. Anybody looking at the subject line will be able to understand what's going on, because even if they are not technically identified as the same "thread" of conversation by the software, humans recognize the convention of adding tags to prefix a subject line as being part of the same overall thread of conversation.

An example post is [this one](https://lists.apache.org/thread/22fol574ch2dbp48w4wbb0hn31j2mx0m) whose [raw content](https://lists.apache.org/api/source.lua?id=22fol574ch2dbp48w4wbb0hn31j2mx0m) contains the header `In-Reply-To: <CAL5zq9bTLW8n6pJBuJpouwaycDeutEqE6C2sKTzLuTOFXDq2bw@mail.gmail.com>` which references [this previous message](https://lists.apache.org/thread/01lq7fs8pf3fy4tddsmoml9r9lgd9ogz)'s [header](https://lists.apache.org/api/source.lua?id=01lq7fs8pf3fy4tddsmoml9r9lgd9ogz) `Message-ID: <CAL5zq9bTLW8n6pJBuJpouwaycDeutEqE6C2sKTzLuTOFXDq2bw@mail.gmail.com>` as well as other messages in the same thread in the `References:` header.

Reviewer: Gotcha. Thanks for clearing that up. Makes sense now :+1:

continues until the vote is closed. If a vote thread becomes inactive and

> remains open for too long, without a response from the initiator, the PMC Chair

Author: No. I intentionally left it open ended, based on expectations about the role of the PMC chair and to avoid being too legalistic in our approach to novel circumstances.

From https://www.apache.org/dev/pmc.html#chair :
> Remember that, as in any committee, the chair is a facilitator and their role within the PMC is to ensure that everyone has a chance to be heard and to enable meetings and mailing lists to flow smoothly.

It seems to follow that this is one way the activity on the mailing list can get held up, and the chair may have to step in to facilitate things flowing smoothly again. If we impose too strict rules around how long is too long, or under what circumstances, etc., then we're constraining the ability of the chair to facilitate things to keep things flowing smoothly. I've heard similar sentiments expressed about the chair's role from a variety of people, including advice from a board member once (years ago) that the PMC chair probably should have stepped in and made a decision when there was a stalemate conflict between contributors, even though there was nothing technically written that conflicts like that should be resolved in that way.

> remains open for too long, without a response from the initiator, the PMC Chair

Reviewer 2: Sure, that makes sense too. I was thinking about it from the other standpoint--would a chair be afraid to intervene because they're not sure when it's been long enough? However, I definitely agree that we don't want to be too legalistic, so I'm ok with this.

view of the vote topic.

Each person gets only a single vote. You can change your vote by replying to
the same vote thread to explain the change prior to the vote being closed.

For more information on how to vote, see the Foundation's page on
[voting][voting].

The Foundation defines voting criteria for procedural issues, code
modifications, and releases. Most formal votes will be [consensus
approval][consensus]. Release votes, however, follow [majority
approval][majority]. Other decisions, when necessary, can often be made through
[lazy consensus][lazy]. In the case of an objection for a lazy consensus vote,
or the desire for explicit consensus, one can initiate a formal vote thread.

All votes should last a minimum of 72 hours.

## Commit Then Review (CTR)

Accumulo follows a commit-then-review (CTR) policy. This means that consensus
is not required prior to committing. Committers can make changes to the
codebase without seeking approval beforehand, and those changes are assumed to
be approved unless an objection is raised afterwards. Only if an objection is
raised must a vote take place on the code change.

> However, just because committers can do this, it does not mean it is a always a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, just because committers can do this, it does not mean it is always a
```

good idea. Committers are expected to use their privileges responsibly and to

> minimize risks. Therefore, it is often is a good idea for committers to seek

Reviewer: ```suggestion
minimize risks. Therefore, it is often a good idea for committers to seek
```

Details on [making][making] and [verifying][verifying] a release are available
on the Accumulo website.

# Decision Making

Within the Accumulo project, different types of decisions require different
forms of approval. For example, the previous section describes 'consensus' from
the existing PMC members. Consensus in that case can be achieved through a
[consensus approval vote][consensus].

## Voting

Decisions regarding the project are made by votes on the primary project
development mailing list: dev@accumulo.apache.org. Where necessary, PMC voting
may take place on the private Accumulo PMC mailing list:
private@accumulo.apache.org. Votes are clearly indicated by a subject line
starting with `[VOTE]`. After the vote period has elapsed, the initiator of the
vote, or their designee, closes it by replying to the thread with the results
of the vote. That result email should use the same subject line preceded by
`[RESULT][VOTE]`. Voting is carried out by replying to the vote mail and
continues until the vote is closed. If a vote thread becomes inactive and
remains open for too long, without a response from the initiator, the PMC Chair

> may close the vote.

Reviewer 3: Thought I was going to change more and then decided to only change a little bit.  That is why there is a big suggestion block w/ a small change.

All participants in the Accumulo project are encouraged to vote. However, some
votes are considered non-binding (such as votes from non-PMC members during a
release vote). However, non-binding votes are still useful to gain insight into
the community's view of the vote topic.

Each person gets only a single vote. You can change your vote by replying to
the same vote thread to explain the change prior to the vote being closed.

For more information on how to vote, see the Foundation's page on
[voting][voting].

> The Foundation defines voting criteria for procedural issues, code
> modifications, and releases. Most formal votes are going to be [consensus
> approval][consensus]. Release votes, however, follow [majority
> approval][majority]. Other decisions, when necessary, can often be made through
> [lazy consensus][lazy]. In the case of an objection for a lazy consensus vote,
> or the desire for explicit consensus, one can initiate a formal vote thread.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Foundation defines voting criteria for procedural issues, code
modifications, and releases. Most formal votes will be [consensus
approval][consensus]. Release votes, however, follow [majority
approval][majority]. Other decisions, when necessary, can often be made through
[lazy consensus][lazy]. In the case of an objection for a lazy consensus vote,
or the desire for explicit consensus, one can initiate a formal vote thread.
```

All votes should last a minimum of 72 hours.

## Commit Then Review (CTR)

> Accumulo follows a commit-then-review (CTR) policy. This only means that it is
> not strictly a requirement to achieve consensus prior to committing code
> changes to the code repository. Committers can make changes to the codebase

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Accumulo follows a commit-then-review (CTR) policy. This means that consensus
is not required prior to committing. Committers can make changes to the codebase
```
